Pew_Research_Health_Tracking_Survey

Abstract

Recent advancements in health technology are providing a wealth of benefits for society, whether an individual is in need of medical treatment or simply interested in maintaining a healthy lifestyle. One’s demographic profile and general health conditions may play a role in how technology is being used as a health-related resource. In this report, statistical modeling techniques have been used to understand how these variables can be leveraged to predict certain actions and behaviors with regard to using technology to improve one’s health. Association rules show that individuals with high blood pressure and who have recently been admitted to an emergency room in the last 12 months are highly likely to use some form of technology to monitor their weight, diet, or exercise regimen. Additionally, individuals who identify as caregivers of other adults with medical conditions or disabilities are highly likely to consult rankings and reviews of doctors online. Clustering techniques identified five main groups of health-technology users. It was found that while 80% of seniors track some type of health metric, only 2% are using a mobile app to do so. Additionally, younger individuals, most of whom live without any serious medical conditions, claim to frequently browse the web and use mobile applications for health-related purposes. As discussed in the full report, insights derived from the application of these statistical algorithms can be highly valuable for a variety of health-related domains, including biotechnology, medical training programs, research, and clinical practice.
